README.md, before:

# Dokku

[![Build Status](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Ubuntu Package](https://img.shields.io/badge/package-ubuntu-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square "Ubuntu Package")](https://packagecloud.io/dokku/dokku)
[![Arch Package](https://img.shields.io/badge/package-arch-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square "Arch Package")](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/dokku/)
[![IRC Network](https://img.shields.io/badge/irc-freenode-blue.svg?style=flat-square "IRC Freenode")](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=dokku)
[![Slack Group](https://img.shields.io/badge/irc-slack-blue.svg?style=flat-square "Slack Group")](https://glider-slackin.herokuapp.com/)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-site-blue.svg?style=flat-square "Site")](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/installation/)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsors/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](#sponsors)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/dokku/backers/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](#backers)
[![Patreon](https://img.shields.io/badge/patreon-donate-green.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.patreon.com/dokku/)

Docker powered mini-Heroku. The smallest PaaS implementation you've ever seen.

## Sponsors

Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on GitHub with a link to your site. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/dokku#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/29/avatar.svg"></a>

## Backers

Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/dokku#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/29/avatar.svg"></a>

## Requirements

A fresh VM running any of the following operating systems:

- Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 x64 - Any currently supported release
- Debian 9+ x64
- CentOS 7 x64 *(experimental)*
- Arch Linux x64 *(experimental)*

An SSH keypair that can be used for application deployment. If this exists before installation, it will be automatically imported into dokku.
Otherwise, you will need to import the keypair manually after installation using `dokku ssh-keys:add`.

## Installation

To install the latest stable release, run the following commands as a user who has access to `sudo`:

```shell
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dokku/dokku/v0.24.10/bootstrap.sh
sudo DOKKU_TAG=v0.24.10 bash bootstrap.sh
```

You can then proceed to the ip address or domain name associated with your server to complete the web-based installation.

If you wish for a more unattended installation method, see [these](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/install/debian/#unattended-installation) docs.

### Upgrade

[View the docs](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/upgrading/) for upgrading from an older version of Dokku.

## Documentation

Full documentation - including advanced installation docs - are available online at [https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/installation/](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/installation/).

## Support

You can use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/issues), check [Troubleshooting](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in the documentation, or join us on [freenode in #dokku](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23dokku).

## Contribution

After checking [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/issues), the [Troubleshooting Guide](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/) or having a chat with us on [freenode in #dokku](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23dokku), feel free to fork and create a Pull Request.

While we may not merge your PR as is, they serve to start conversations and improve the general Dokku experience for all users.

## License

[MIT License](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/blob/master/LICENSE) © Jeff Lindsay

Commit message:

docs: swap from freenode to libera.chat
Freenode is basically offline at this point and we've had a libera.chat for a while, so we should point to that.

Also default all real-time communication to Slack.

Finally, remove prominent links to IRC. While libera is still available, the lack of monitoring makes it not a great way to provide support to users.

README.md, after:

# Dokku

[![Build Status](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Ubuntu Package](https://img.shields.io/badge/package-ubuntu-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square "Ubuntu Package")](https://packagecloud.io/dokku/dokku)
[![Arch Package](https://img.shields.io/badge/package-arch-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square "Arch Package")](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/dokku/)
[![Slack Group](https://img.shields.io/badge/irc-slack-blue.svg?style=flat-square "Slack Group")](https://glider-slackin.herokuapp.com/)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-site-blue.svg?style=flat-square "Site")](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/installation/)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsors/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](#sponsors)
[![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/dokku/backers/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](#backers)
[![Patreon](https://img.shields.io/badge/patreon-donate-green.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.patreon.com/dokku/)

Docker powered mini-Heroku. The smallest PaaS implementation you've ever seen.

## Sponsors

Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on GitHub with a link to your site. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/dokku#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/sponsor/29/avatar.svg"></a>

## Backers

Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/dokku#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/dokku/backer/29/avatar.svg"></a>

## Requirements

A fresh VM running any of the following operating systems:

- Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 x64 - Any currently supported release
- Debian 9+ x64
- CentOS 7 x64 *(experimental)*
- Arch Linux x64 *(experimental)*

An SSH keypair that can be used for application deployment. If this exists before installation, it will be automatically imported into dokku.
Otherwise, you will need to import the keypair manually after installation using `dokku ssh-keys:add`.

## Installation

To install the latest stable release, run the following commands as a user who has access to `sudo`:

```shell
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dokku/dokku/v0.24.10/bootstrap.sh
sudo DOKKU_TAG=v0.24.10 bash bootstrap.sh
```

You can then proceed to the ip address or domain name associated with your server to complete the web-based installation.

If you wish for a more unattended installation method, see [these](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/install/debian/#unattended-installation) docs.

### Upgrade

[View the docs](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/upgrading/) for upgrading from an older version of Dokku.

## Documentation

Full documentation - including advanced installation docs - are available online at [https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/installation/](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/installation/).

## Support

You can use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/issues), check [Troubleshooting](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in the documentation, or join us on [Gliderlabs Slack in the #dokku channel](https://glider-slackin.herokuapp.com/).

## Contribution

After checking [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/issues), the [Troubleshooting Guide](https://dokku.com/docs/getting-started/troubleshooting/) or having a chat with us on [Gliderlabs Slack in the #dokku channel](https://glider-slackin.herokuapp.com/), feel free to fork and create a Pull Request.

While we may not merge your PR as is, they serve to start conversations and improve the general Dokku experience for all users.

## License

[MIT License](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/blob/master/LICENSE) © Jeff Lindsay
