docs/deployment/methods/cloud-native-buildpacks.md, before:

# Cloud Native Buildpacks (Experimental)

> New as of 0.22.0

```
buildpacks:stack-set <app> <stack>           # Sets the stack of an app
```
Cloud Native Buildpacks are an evolution over the Buildpacks technology provided by the Herokuish builder. See the [herokuish buildpacks documentation](/docs/deployment/methods/herokuish.md) for more information on how to clear buildpack build cache for an application.

> Warning: This functionality uses the `pack` cli from the [Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io) project to build apps. As the integration is experimental in Dokku, it is likely to change over time.

## Usage

To use this builder instead of either `Dockerfile` or `herokuish`, you must set the `DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL` environment variable for your app to `1`.

```shell
dokku config:set --no-restart node-js-app DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL=1
```

The `pack` cli tool is not included by default with Dokku or as a dependency. It must also be installed as shown on [this page](https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/).

Builds will proceed with the `pack` cli for the app from then on.

## Caveats

As this functionality is highly experimental, there are a number of caveats. Please note that not all issuesare listed below.

- Specifying specific buildpacks is not currently possible.
  - A future release will add support for specifying buildpacks via the `buildpacks` plugin.
- There is currently no way to specify extra arguments for `pack` cli invocations.
  - A future release will add support for injecting extra arguments during the build process.
- The default process type is `web`.
- Build cache is stored in Docker volumes instead of on disk. As such, `repo:purge-cache` currently has no effect.
  - A future version will add integration with the `repo` plugin.
- `pack` is not currently included with Dokku, nor is it added as a package dependency.
  - A future version will include it as a package dependency.

### Customizing the Buildpack stack builder

> New as of 0.23.0

The default stack builder in use by CNB buildpacks in Dokku is based on `heroku/buildpacks`. Users may desire to switch the stack builder to a custom version, either to update the operating system or to customize packages included with the stack builder. This can be performed via the `buildpacks:stack-set` command.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:stack-set node-js-app paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb
```

The specified stack builder can also be unset by omitting the name of the stack builder when calling `buildpacks:stack-set`.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:stack-set node-js-app
```

A change in the stack builder value will execute the `post-stack-set` trigger.

Finally, stack builders can be set or unset globally as a fallback. This will take precedence over a globally set `DOKKU_CNB_STACK` environment variable (`heroku/buildpacks` by default).

```shell
# set globally
dokku buildpacks:stack-set --global paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb

# unset globally
dokku buildpacks:stack-set --global
```

Commit message:

refactor: rename command to :set-property
This will allow us to set other property values for the buildpacks plugin.

docs/deployment/methods/cloud-native-buildpacks.md, after:

# Cloud Native Buildpacks (Experimental)

> New as of 0.22.0

```
buildpacks:set-property [--global|<app>] <key> <value>  # Set or clear a buildpacks property for an app
```
Cloud Native Buildpacks are an evolution over the Buildpacks technology provided by the Herokuish builder. See the [herokuish buildpacks documentation](/docs/deployment/methods/herokuish.md) for more information on how to clear buildpack build cache for an application.

> Warning: This functionality uses the `pack` cli from the [Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io) project to build apps. As the integration is experimental in Dokku, it is likely to change over time.

## Usage

To use this builder instead of either `Dockerfile` or `herokuish`, you must set the `DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL` environment variable for your app to `1`.

```shell
dokku config:set --no-restart node-js-app DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL=1
```

The `pack` cli tool is not included by default with Dokku or as a dependency. It must also be installed as shown on [this page](https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/).

Builds will proceed with the `pack` cli for the app from then on.

## Caveats

As this functionality is highly experimental, there are a number of caveats. Please note that not all issuesare listed below.

- Specifying specific buildpacks is not currently possible.
  - A future release will add support for specifying buildpacks via the `buildpacks` plugin.
- There is currently no way to specify extra arguments for `pack` cli invocations.
  - A future release will add support for injecting extra arguments during the build process.
- The default process type is `web`.
- Build cache is stored in Docker volumes instead of on disk. As such, `repo:purge-cache` currently has no effect.
  - A future version will add integration with the `repo` plugin.
- `pack` is not currently included with Dokku, nor is it added as a package dependency.
  - A future version will include it as a package dependency.

### Customizing the Buildpack stack builder

> New as of 0.23.0

The default stack builder in use by CNB buildpacks in Dokku is based on `heroku/buildpacks`. Users may desire to switch the stack builder to a custom version, either to update the operating system or to customize packages included with the stack builder. This can be performed via the `buildpacks:set-property` command.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:set-property node-js-app paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb
```

The specified stack builder can also be unset by omitting the name of the stack builder when calling `buildpacks:set-property`.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:set-property node-js-app
```

A change in the stack builder value will execute the `post-stack-set` trigger.

Finally, stack builders can be set or unset globally as a fallback. This will take precedence over a globally set `DOKKU_CNB_STACK` environment variable (`heroku/buildpacks` by default).

```shell
# set globally
dokku buildpacks:set-property --global paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb

# unset globally
dokku buildpacks:set-property --global
```
