docs/advanced-usage/schedulers/docker-local.md, before:

# Docker Local Scheduler

> New as of 0.12.0

Dokku natively includes functionality to manage application lifecycles for a single server using the `scheduler-docker-local` plugin. It is the default scheduler, but as with all schedulers, it is set on a per-application basis. The scheduler can currently be overridden by running the following command:

```shell
dokku config:set node-js-app DOCKER_SCHEDULER=docker-local
```

As it is the default, unsetting the `DOCKER_SCHEDULER` config variable is also a valid way to reset the scheduler.

```shell
dokku config:unset node-js-app DOCKER_SCHEDULER
```

## Implemented Triggers

This plugin implements various functionality through `plugn` triggers to integrate with Docker for running apps on a single server. The following functionality is supported by the `scheduler-docker-local` plugin.

- `check-deploy`
- `core-post-deploy`
- `post-delete`
- `pre-deploy`
- `pre-restore`
- `scheduler-deploy`
- `scheduler-docker-cleanup`
- `scheduler-logs-failed`
- `scheduler-run`
- `scheduler-stop`
- `scheduler-tags-create`
- `scheduler-tags-destroy`

Commit message:

feat: allow disabling chown for persistent storage in scheduler-docker-local
Some systems - such as a mounted read-only CIFS filesystem - do not fully support chown, and chowning should be considered optional for cases when the host os has already taken care of permissioning. This commit allows users to disable chown by setting a property on the scheduler-docker-local plugin.

docs/advanced-usage/schedulers/docker-local.md, after:

# Docker Local Scheduler

> Subcommands new as of 0.12.12

```
scheduler-docker-local:report [<app>] [<flag>]              # Displays a scheduler-docker-local report for one or more apps
scheduler-docker-local:set <app> <key> (<value>)            # Set or clear a scheduler-docker-local property for an app
```

> New as of 0.12.0

Dokku natively includes functionality to manage application lifecycles for a single server using the `scheduler-docker-local` plugin. It is the default scheduler, but as with all schedulers, it is set on a per-application basis. The scheduler can currently be overridden by running the following command:

```shell
dokku config:set node-js-app DOCKER_SCHEDULER=docker-local
```

As it is the default, unsetting the `DOCKER_SCHEDULER` config variable is also a valid way to reset the scheduler.

```shell
dokku config:unset node-js-app DOCKER_SCHEDULER
```

## Usage

### Disabling chown of persistent storage

The `scheduler-docker-local` plugin will ensure your storage mounts are owned by either `herokuishuser` or the overridden value you have set in `DOKKU_APP_USER`. You may disable this by running the following `scheduler-docker-local:set` command for your application:

```shell
dokku scheduler-docker-local:set node-js-app DISABLE_CHOWN true
```

Once set, you may re-enable it by setting a blank value for `DISABLE_CHOWN`:

```shell
dokku scheduler-docker-local:set node-js-app DISABLE_CHOWN
```

## Implemented Triggers

This plugin implements various functionality through `plugn` triggers to integrate with Docker for running apps on a single server. The following functionality is supported by the `scheduler-docker-local` plugin.

- `check-deploy`
- `core-post-deploy`
- `post-delete`
- `pre-deploy`
- `pre-restore`
- `scheduler-deploy`
- `scheduler-docker-cleanup`
- `scheduler-logs-failed`
- `scheduler-run`
- `scheduler-stop`
- `scheduler-tags-create`
- `scheduler-tags-destroy`
