docs/deployment/builders/cloud-native-buildpacks.md, before:

# Cloud Native Buildpacks (Experimental)

> New as of 0.22.0

```
buildpacks:set-property [--global|<app>] <key> <value>  # Set or clear a buildpacks property for an app
```

Cloud Native Buildpacks are an evolution over the Buildpacks technology provided by the Herokuish builder. See the [herokuish buildpacks documentation](/docs/deployment/builders/herokuish-buildpacks.md) for more information on how to clear buildpack build cache for an application.

> Warning: This functionality uses the `pack` cli from the [Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io) project to build apps. As the integration is experimental in Dokku, it is likely to change over time.

## Usage

### Requirements

The `pack` cli tool is not included by default with Dokku or as a dependency. It must also be installed as shown on [this page](https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/).

Builds will proceed with the `pack` cli for the app from then on.

### Caveats

As this functionality is highly experimental, there are a number of caveats. Please note that not all issuesare listed below.

- Specifying specific buildpacks is not currently possible.
  - A future release will add support for specifying buildpacks via the `buildpacks` plugin.
- There is currently no way to specify extra arguments for `pack` cli invocations.
  - A future release will add support for injecting extra arguments during the build process.
- The default process type is `web`.
- Build cache is stored in Docker volumes instead of on disk. As such, `repo:purge-cache` currently has no effect.
  - A future version will add integration with the `repo` plugin.
- `pack` is not currently included with Dokku, nor is it added as a package dependency.
  - A future version will include it as a package dependency.

### Detection

This builder will be auto-detected in either the following cases:

- The `DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL` app environment variable is set to `1`.
  ```shell
  dokku config:set --no-restart node-js-app DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL=1
  ```
- A `project.toml` file exists in the root of the app repository.
  - This file is consumed by `pack-cli` and used to describe how the app is built.

The builder can also be specified via the `builder:set` command:

```shell
dokku builder:set node-js-app selected pack
```

> Dokku will only select the `dockerfile` builder if both the `herokuish` and `pack` builders are not detected and a Dockerfile exists. See the [dockerfile builder documentation](/docs/deployment/builders/dockerfiles.md) for more information on how that builder functions.

### Changing the `project.toml` location

When deploying a monorepo, it may be desirable to specify the specific path of the `project.toml` file to use for a given app. This can be done via the `builder-pack:set` command.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set node-js-app projecttoml-path project2.toml
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option:

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set node-js-app projecttoml-path
```

The `projecttoml-path` property can also be set globally. The global default is `project.toml`, and the global value is used when no app-specific value is set.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set --global projecttoml-path project2.toml
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set --global projecttoml-path
```

### Displaying builder-pack reports for an app

> New as of 0.25.0

You can get a report about the app's storage status using the `builder-pack:report` command:

```shell
dokku app-json:report
```

```
=====> node-js-app builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project2.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.toml
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:          project2.toml
=====> python-sample builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.toml
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:
=====> ruby-sample builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.json
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:
```

You can run the command for a specific app also.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:report node-js-app
```

```
=====> node-js-app builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project2.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.toml
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:          project2.toml
```

You can pass flags which will output only the value of the specific information you want. For example:

```shell
dokku builder-pack:report node-js-app --builder-pack-projecttoml-path
```

```
project2.toml
```

### Customizing the Buildpack stack builder

> New as of 0.23.0

The default stack builder in use by CNB buildpacks in Dokku is based on `heroku/buildpacks`. Users may desire to switch the stack builder to a custom version, either to update the operating system or to customize packages included with the stack builder. This can be performed via the `buildpacks:set-property` command.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:set-property node-js-app stack paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb
```

The specified stack builder can also be unset by omitting the name of the stack builder when calling `buildpacks:set-property`.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:set-property node-js-app stack
```

A change in the stack builder value will execute the `post-stack-set` trigger.

Finally, stack builders can be set or unset globally as a fallback. This will take precedence over a globally set `DOKKU_CNB_BUILDER` environment variable (`heroku/buildpacks` by default).

```shell
# set globally
dokku buildpacks:set-property --global stack paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb

# unset globally
dokku buildpacks:set-property --global stack
```

Commit message:

docs: add notes for what happens if the specified values do not exist

docs/deployment/builders/cloud-native-buildpacks.md, after:

# Cloud Native Buildpacks (Experimental)

> New as of 0.22.0

```
buildpacks:set-property [--global|<app>] <key> <value>  # Set or clear a buildpacks property for an app
```

Cloud Native Buildpacks are an evolution over the Buildpacks technology provided by the Herokuish builder. See the [herokuish buildpacks documentation](/docs/deployment/builders/herokuish-buildpacks.md) for more information on how to clear buildpack build cache for an application.

> Warning: This functionality uses the `pack` cli from the [Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io) project to build apps. As the integration is experimental in Dokku, it is likely to change over time.

## Usage

### Requirements

The `pack` cli tool is not included by default with Dokku or as a dependency. It must also be installed as shown on [this page](https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/).

Builds will proceed with the `pack` cli for the app from then on.

### Caveats

As this functionality is highly experimental, there are a number of caveats. Please note that not all issuesare listed below.

- Specifying specific buildpacks is not currently possible.
  - A future release will add support for specifying buildpacks via the `buildpacks` plugin.
- There is currently no way to specify extra arguments for `pack` cli invocations.
  - A future release will add support for injecting extra arguments during the build process.
- The default process type is `web`.
- Build cache is stored in Docker volumes instead of on disk. As such, `repo:purge-cache` currently has no effect.
  - A future version will add integration with the `repo` plugin.
- `pack` is not currently included with Dokku, nor is it added as a package dependency.
  - A future version will include it as a package dependency.

### Detection

This builder will be auto-detected in either the following cases:

- The `DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL` app environment variable is set to `1`.
  ```shell
  dokku config:set --no-restart node-js-app DOKKU_CNB_EXPERIMENTAL=1
  ```
- A `project.toml` file exists in the root of the app repository.
  - This file is consumed by `pack-cli` and used to describe how the app is built.

The builder can also be specified via the `builder:set` command:

```shell
dokku builder:set node-js-app selected pack
```

> Dokku will only select the `dockerfile` builder if both the `herokuish` and `pack` builders are not detected and a Dockerfile exists. See the [dockerfile builder documentation](/docs/deployment/builders/dockerfiles.md) for more information on how that builder functions.

### Changing the `project.toml` location

When deploying a monorepo, it may be desirable to specify the specific path of the `project.toml` file to use for a given app. This can be done via the `builder-pack:set` command. If a value other than `project.toml` is specified and that file does not exist in the app's build directory, then the build will fail.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set node-js-app projecttoml-path project2.toml
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option:

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set node-js-app projecttoml-path
```

The `projecttoml-path` property can also be set globally. The global default is `project.toml`, and the global value is used when no app-specific value is set.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set --global projecttoml-path project2.toml
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:set --global projecttoml-path
```

### Displaying builder-pack reports for an app

> New as of 0.25.0

You can get a report about the app's storage status using the `builder-pack:report` command:

```shell
dokku app-json:report
```

```
=====> node-js-app builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project2.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.toml
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:          project2.toml
=====> python-sample builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.toml
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:
=====> ruby-sample builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.json
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:
```

You can run the command for a specific app also.

```shell
dokku builder-pack:report node-js-app
```

```
=====> node-js-app builder-pack information
       Builder-pack computed projecttoml path: project2.toml
       Builder-pack global projecttoml path:   project.toml
       Builder-pack projecttoml path:          project2.toml
```

You can pass flags which will output only the value of the specific information you want. For example:

```shell
dokku builder-pack:report node-js-app --builder-pack-projecttoml-path
```

```
project2.toml
```

### Customizing the Buildpack stack builder

> New as of 0.23.0

The default stack builder in use by CNB buildpacks in Dokku is based on `heroku/buildpacks`. Users may desire to switch the stack builder to a custom version, either to update the operating system or to customize packages included with the stack builder. This can be performed via the `buildpacks:set-property` command.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:set-property node-js-app stack paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb
```

The specified stack builder can also be unset by omitting the name of the stack builder when calling `buildpacks:set-property`.

```shell
dokku buildpacks:set-property node-js-app stack
```

A change in the stack builder value will execute the `post-stack-set` trigger.

Finally, stack builders can be set or unset globally as a fallback. This will take precedence over a globally set `DOKKU_CNB_BUILDER` environment variable (`heroku/buildpacks` by default).

```shell
# set globally
dokku buildpacks:set-property --global stack paketobuildpacks/build:base-cnb

# unset globally
dokku buildpacks:set-property --global stack
```
