docs/getting-started/install/vagrant.md, before:

# Vagrant Installation Notes

1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).

2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).

3. Clone Dokku.

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/dokku/dokku.git
    ```

4. Create VM.

    ```shell
    # Optional ENV arguments:
    # - `BOX_NAME`
    # - `BOX_URI`
    # - `BOX_MEMORY`
    # - `DOKKU_DOMAIN`
    # - `DOKKU_IP`
    # - `FORWARDED_PORT`.
    cd path/to/dokku
    
    # for most users
    vagrant up
    
    # windows users must instead use the following in an elevated command prompt
    vagrant up dokku-windows
    ```

5. Setup SSH Config in `~/.ssh/config`.

    ```ini
    Host dokku.me
        Port 22
    ```

    > For users that have customized the IP address of their VM - either in a custom `Vagrantfile` or via the `DOKKU_IP` environment variable - and are not using `10.0.0.2` for the Vagrant IP, you'll need to instead use the output of `vagrant ssh-config dokku` for your `~/.ssh/config` entry. 

6. Copy your SSH key via `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | pbcopy` and paste it into the dokku-installer at http://dokku.me . Change the `Hostname` field on the Dokku Setup screen to your domain and then check the box that says **Use virtualhost naming**. Then click **Finish Setup** to install your key. You'll be directed to application deployment instructions from here.

Please note, the `dokku.me` domain is setup to point to `10.0.0.2` along with all subdomains (i.e. `yourapp.dokku.me`). If you change the `DOKKU_IP` in your Vagrant setup you'll need to update your `/etc/hosts` file to point your reconfigured IP address.

You are now ready to deploy an app or install plugins.

Commit message:

refactor: drop web installer in favor of setup via cli
This makes the installation a bit more secure by ensuring a user does not accidentally expose a way for unauthorized users to add new ssh keys to the system.

Additionally, this removes the extra HOSTNAME file to make the initial install process easier (that file was not modifiable by any dokku commands.

Closes #2247

docs/getting-started/install/vagrant.md, after:

# Vagrant Installation Notes

1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).

2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).

3. Clone Dokku.

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/dokku/dokku.git
    ```

4. Create VM.

    ```shell
    # Optional ENV arguments:
    # - `BOX_NAME`
    # - `BOX_URI`
    # - `BOX_MEMORY`
    # - `DOKKU_DOMAIN`
    # - `DOKKU_IP`
    # - `FORWARDED_PORT`.
    cd path/to/dokku
    
    # for most users
    vagrant up
    
    # windows users must instead use the following in an elevated command prompt
    vagrant up dokku-windows
    ```

5. Setup SSH Config in `~/.ssh/config`.

    ```ini
    Host dokku.me
        Port 22
    ```

    > For users that have customized the IP address of their VM - either in a custom `Vagrantfile` or via the `DOKKU_IP` environment variable - and are not using `10.0.0.2` for the Vagrant IP, you'll need to instead use the output of `vagrant ssh-config dokku` for your `~/.ssh/config` entry. 

6. Connect to the server and add your ssh key to the install. Additionally, set the global domain name to `dokku.me`.

    ```shell
    # usually your key is already available under the current user's `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file
    cat ~/.ssh/authorized_keys | dokku ssh-keys:add admin

    # you can use any domain you already have access to
    dokku domains:set-global dokku.me
    ```

    > Please note, the `dokku.me` domain is setup to point to `10.0.0.2` along with all subdomains (i.e. `yourapp.dokku.me`). If you change the `DOKKU_IP` in your Vagrant setup you'll need to update your `/etc/hosts` file to point your reconfigured IP address.

You are now ready to deploy an app or install plugins.
