docs/getting-started/where-to-get-help.md, before:

# Where to Get Help

If you’re stuck, there are a number of places you can get help:

## The Official Dokku Website

- [http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/](/docs/)

The Official Dokku website is always a great place to visit. It features links to oft-used developer tools, community plugins, and guides on using Dokku.

## The IRC and Slack Channels

- [irc.freenode.net/#dokku](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=dokku)
- [Gliderlabs Slack](https://glider-slackin.herokuapp.com/) (Join the `#dokku` channel)

If you’re stumped, give us a holler in the Dokku IRC or Slack channels. Someone from the development team is usually there, especially during the daylight hours for North and South America users. We’d love to hear from you, whether you need some help, want to find users in your area, or would like to donate your brand new sports car.

## Stack Overflow

- [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/dokku](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/dokku)

Tag your questions with `dokku` to enable existing users of Stack Overflow to find your questions.

Commit message:

docs: add github discussions link and clarify what is monitored and what is not.

docs/getting-started/where-to-get-help.md, after:

# Where to Get Help

If you’re stuck, there are a number of places you can get help:

## The Official Dokku Website

- [http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/](/docs/)

The Official Dokku website is always a great place to visit. It features links to oft-used developer tools, community plugins, and guides on using Dokku.

## Monitored Locations

The [Code Of Conduct](https://github.com/dokku/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all actively monitored Dokku discussion areas. Please be mindful of your neighbors on the internet.

### Forums

- [Github Discussions](https://github.com/dokku/dokku/discussions)

GitHub Discussions is a new way for the Dokku community to interact with each other! This is a place to ask questions to the community or discuss potential feature requests before filing issues.

### The Slack Channel

- [Gliderlabs Slack](https://glider-slackin.herokuapp.com/) (Join the `#dokku` channel)

If you’re stumped, give us a holler in the Dokku Slack channel. Someone from the development team is usually there, especially during the daylight hours for North and South American users. We’d love to hear from you, whether you need some help, want to find users in your area, or would like to donate your brand new sports car.

## Unmonitored Locations

You may find help on these locations, but they are not actively monitored by the development team. The [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/dokku/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) still applies.

### Stack Overflow

- [The Dokku tag on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/dokku)

Tag your questions with `dokku` to enable existing users of Stack Overflow to find your questions.

### IRC (on freenode)

- [irc.freenode.net/#dokku](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=dokku)

This location isn't as well monitored as Slack, and loses history.
