docs/appendices/0.21.0-migration-guide.md, before:

# 0.21.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

The `tls` name is no longer a reserved app name, and can be used by applications. This was previously a reserved app name due to it's use as a place for global SSL certificate files; Dokku has not supported global SSL certificates for many releases, and thus there is no need to reserve the name.

## Deprecations

- `git#git_deploy_branch()` is deprecated in favor of `plugn trigger git-deploy-branch`.
- The `config` command is deprecated in favor of `config:show`.
  - Usage of this command in conjunction with either the `--export` or `--shell` flag is deprecated in favor of `config:export --format` with the correct format value (`exports` or `shell`, respectively).

## Removals

The `apps:destroy` command no longer takes a second argument `force`. Instead, this can be passed as the `--force` flag, either globally or as a flag to the command itself.

The `proxy:enable` and `proxy:disable` no longer restart apps when setting the `DOKKU_DISABLE_PROXY` environment variable. A future release will disable usage of `DOKKU_DISABLE_PROXY` altogether.

Commit message:

feat: create proxy:build-config command
Closes #4024

docs/appendices/0.21.0-migration-guide.md, after:

# 0.21.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

The `tls` name is no longer a reserved app name, and can be used by applications. This was previously a reserved app name due to it's use as a place for global SSL certificate files; Dokku has not supported global SSL certificates for many releases, and thus there is no need to reserve the name.

## Deprecations

- `git#git_deploy_branch()` is deprecated in favor of `plugn trigger git-deploy-branch`.
- The `config` command is deprecated in favor of `config:show`.
  - Usage of this command in conjunction with either the `--export` or `--shell` flag is deprecated in favor of `config:export --format` with the correct format value (`exports` or `shell`, respectively).
- The `nginx:build-config` command is deprecated in favor of `proxy:build-config`.

## Removals

The `apps:destroy` command no longer takes a second argument `force`. Instead, this can be passed as the `--force` flag, either globally or as a flag to the command itself.

The `proxy:enable` and `proxy:disable` no longer restart apps when setting the `DOKKU_DISABLE_PROXY` environment variable. A future release will disable usage of `DOKKU_DISABLE_PROXY` altogether.
