docs/appendices/0.24.0-migration-guide.md, before:

# 0.23.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

- The commands `proxy:enable`, `proxy:disable` and `proxy:build-config` now support the `--all` flag in addition to general parallelism.
- The `builder-cnb` plugin has been renamed `builder-pack`, and all related plugin triggers have had the suffix `-cnb` changed to `-pack`.

## Deprecations

- The 1.0.0 release of Dokku will no longer select buildpack builders over dockerfile builders if both builders match. Instead, Dokku will choose the first builder that responds to the `builder-detect` trigger. Users that wish to use a specific builder may set a builder using the `builder:set` command, which will force Dokku to use the specified builder regardless of what might be auto-detected.
- The `tags` plugin is deprecated in favor of the [`git:from-image`](/docs/deployment/methods/git.md#initializing-an-app-repository-from-a-docker-image) command. It will be removed in a future release, and is considered unmaintained. Users are highly encouraged to switch their workflows to `git:from-image`.

Commit message:

feat: implement git:from-archive
The previous tar support lacked the ability to track changes between tarball deploys. Critically, it also failed to be handled correctly when there was _also_ a git deployment done on the app, resulting in odd deployment states depending on the angles of the moon and the sun in the sky.

Rather than try to "fix" this through some hokey mechanism, importing the tar file contents into the git repository is preferred, as then the user can refer to the repository for commit history.

Additionally, we add support for non-tar files (tar.gz and zip), enabling deployments from systems that do not create tar files, such as Github (their tarball url is a tar.gz file).

Finally, this deprecates the tar plugin, and sets it to be removed in the next minor release (in addition to the tags plugin).

Closes #3458
Closes #4207

docs/appendices/0.24.0-migration-guide.md, after:

# 0.23.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

- The commands `proxy:enable`, `proxy:disable` and `proxy:build-config` now support the `--all` flag in addition to general parallelism.
- The `builder-cnb` plugin has been renamed `builder-pack`, and all related plugin triggers have had the suffix `-cnb` changed to `-pack`.

## Deprecations

- The 1.0.0 release of Dokku will no longer select buildpack builders over dockerfile builders if both builders match. Instead, Dokku will choose the first builder that responds to the `builder-detect` trigger. Users that wish to use a specific builder may set a builder using the `builder:set` command, which will force Dokku to use the specified builder regardless of what might be auto-detected.
- The `tags` plugin is deprecated in favor of the [`git:from-image`](/docs/deployment/methods/git.md#initializing-an-app-repository-from-a-docker-image) command. It will be removed in the next minor release, and is considered unmaintained. Users are highly encouraged to switch their workflows to `git:from-image`.
- The `tar` plugin is deprecated in favor of the [`git:from-archive`](/docs/deployment/methods/git.md#initializing-an-app-repository-from-an-archive-file) command. It will be removed in the next minor release, and is considered unmaintained. Users are highly encouraged to switch their workflows to `git:from-archive`.
