docs/appendices/0.29.0-migration-guide.md, before:

# 0.29.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

- The output of `run:detached` now uses the container name - eg. `node-js-app.run.1` - vs the container id.
- The ID of `cron` tasks is now base36-encoded instead of base64-encoded.
- The `nginx.conf.sigil` is now extracted when source code is extracted for a build and not from the built image. Users can specify alternative paths via the `nginx-conf-sigil-path` property of the `nginx` plugin. See the [nginx documentation](/docs/networking/proxies/nginx.md#customizing-the-nginx-configuration) for more information on how to configure the `nginx.conf.sigil` path for your application.

## Removals

- The `DOKKU_WAIT_TO_RETIRE` environment variable has been migrated to a `checks` property named `wait-to-retire` and will be ignored if set as an environment variable.
- The `Procfile` is now extracted when source code is extracted for a build and not from the built image. Users can specify alternative paths via the `procfile-path` property of the `ps` plugin. See the [process management documentation](/docs/processes/process-management.md#changing-the-procfile-location) for more information on how to configure the `Procfile` path for your application.

Commit message:

refactor: rename pre-restore trigger to scheduler-pre-restore
This better reflects what the trigger does, and allows us to use the pre-restore trigger at the beginning of the ps:restore command.

docs/appendices/0.29.0-migration-guide.md, after:

# 0.29.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

- The output of `run:detached` now uses the container name - eg. `node-js-app.run.1` - vs the container id.
- The ID of `cron` tasks is now base36-encoded instead of base64-encoded.
- The `nginx.conf.sigil` is now extracted when source code is extracted for a build and not from the built image. Users can specify alternative paths via the `nginx-conf-sigil-path` property of the `nginx` plugin. See the [nginx documentation](/docs/networking/proxies/nginx.md#customizing-the-nginx-configuration) for more information on how to configure the `nginx.conf.sigil` path for your application.
- The existing `pre-restore` hook has been renamed to `scheduler-pre-restore`. There is a new `pre-restore` hook that is triggered within the `ps:restore` command prior to restoring any apps.

## Removals

- The `DOKKU_WAIT_TO_RETIRE` environment variable has been migrated to a `checks` property named `wait-to-retire` and will be ignored if set as an environment variable.
- The `Procfile` is now extracted when source code is extracted for a build and not from the built image. Users can specify alternative paths via the `procfile-path` property of the `ps` plugin. See the [process management documentation](/docs/processes/process-management.md#changing-the-procfile-location) for more information on how to configure the `Procfile` path for your application.
