# 0.32.0 Migration Guide

## Deprecations

- The following `pre-build-*` plugin triggers have been deprecated and will be removed in the next release. Users should instead trigger the `pre-build` plugin trigger.
    - pre-build-buildpack
    - pre-build-dockerfile
    - pre-build-lambda
    - pre-build-pack
- The following `pre-release-*` plugin triggers have been deprecated and will be removed in the next release. Users should instead trigger the `pre-release-builder` plugin trigger.
    - pre-release-buildpack
    - pre-release-dockerfile
    - pre-release-lambda
    - pre-release-pack
- The following `post-build-*` plugin triggers have been deprecated and will be removed in the next release. Users should instead trigger the `post-build` plugin trigger.
    - post-build-buildpack
    - post-build-dockerfile
    - post-build-lambda
    - post-build-pack
- The `CHECKS` file was deprecated in the previous release in favor of defining healthchecks in the `app.json` file. It's support and auto-migration to healthchecks in the `app.json` file will be removed in the next release. See the [zero-downtime deploy documentation](/docs/deployment/zero-downtime-deploys.md) for more information on how the new zero downtime check format works.

## Removals

- ARM support has been removed. Users of ARM installations on platforms such as the Raspberry PI should consider migrating to ARM64. ARM64 will continue to be supported by Dokku, and there are no plans to remove support for ARM64.
- The following proxy-port related code has been removed. It is replaced by the `ports` plugin and it's related plugin triggers.
    - `proxy:ports-*` commands
    - `proxy-configure-ports` plugin trigger
    - `common#get_available_port()`
    - `common#get_dockerfile_exposed_ports()`
    - `common#get_exposed_ports_from_image()`
