# 0.35.0 Migration Guide

## Changes

- The provided `dokku/dokku:latest` Docker image now runs Ubuntu 24.04 Noble. Users that install custom packages within their docker-based installations should be sure to check package compatibility with Ubuntu 24.04.
- The default image used for Cloud Native Buildpack builds is now `heroku/builder:24`, and is based on both the `heroku-24` stack as well as Ubuntu 24.04. Users that wish to stick with the old, `heroku-22`/Ubuntu 22.04 builder may specify `heroku/buildpacks:22` as their builder image. Please see the [cloud native buildpack deployment documentation](/docs/deployment/builders/cloud-native-buildpacks.md#customizing-the-buildpack-stack-builder) for more information on how to specify a custom buildpack stack builder.
- The default image used for Herokuish Buildpack builds is now `gliderlabs/herokuish:latest-24`, and is based on both the `heroku-24` stack as well as Ubuntu 24.04. Users that wish to stick with the old, `heroku-22`/Ubuntu 22.04 builder may specify `gliderlabs/herokuish:latest-22` as their builder image. Please see the [herokuish buildpack deployment documentation](/docs/deployment/builders/herokuish-buildpacks.md#customizing-the-buildpack-stack-builder) for more information on how to specify a custom buildpack stack builder.
- The `vector` image used by Dokku for enhanced logging support has been upgraded from 0.39.x to 0.41.x. To take advantage of the new image, execute the following commands:
    ```
    dokku logs:vector-stop
    dokku logs:vector-start
    ```
- The `openresty` image used by Dokku for proxying via openresty has been upgraded from 0.8.0 to 0.9.0. To take advantage of the new image, execute the following commands:
    ```
    dokku openresty:stop
    dokku openresty:start
    ```
