docs/networking/proxy-management.md, before:

# Proxy Management

> New as of 0.5.0, Enhanced in 0.6.0

```
proxy:disable <app>                      # Disable proxy for app
proxy:enable <app>                       # Enable proxy for app
proxy:report [<app>] [<flag>]            # Displays a proxy report for one or more apps
proxy:set <app> <proxy-type>             # Set proxy type for app
```

In Dokku 0.5.0, port proxying was decoupled from the `nginx-vhosts` plugin into the proxy plugin. Dokku 0.6.0 introduced the ability to map host ports to specific container ports. In the future this will allow other proxy software - such as HAProxy or Caddy - to be used in place of nginx.

## Usage

### Container network interface binding

> Changed as of 0.11.0

From Dokku versions `0.5.0` until `0.11.0`, enabling or disabling an application's proxy would **also** control whether or not the application was bound to all interfaces - e.g. `0.0.0.0`. As of `0.11.0`, this is now controlled by the network plugin. Please see the [network documentation](/docs/networking/network.md#container-network-interface-binding) for more information.

### Displaying proxy reports for an app

> New as of 0.8.1

You can get a report about the app's proxy status using the `proxy:report` command:

```shell
dokku proxy:report
```

```
=====> node-js-app proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000 https:443:5000
=====> python-sample proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000
=====> ruby-sample proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000
```

You can run the command for a specific app also.

```shell
dokku proxy:report node-js-app
```

```
=====> node-js-app proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000 https:443:5000
```

You can pass flags which will output only the value of the specific information you want. For example:

```shell
dokku proxy:report node-js-app --proxy-type
```

#### Proxy Port Scheme

The proxy port scheme is as follows:

- `SCHEME:HOST_PORT:CONTAINER_PORT`

The scheme metadata can be used by proxy implementations in order to properly handle proxying of requests. For example, the built-in `nginx-vhosts` proxy implementation supports both the `http` and `https` schemes.

Developers of proxy implementations are encouraged to use whatever schemes make the most sense, and ignore configurations which they do not support. For instance, a `udp` proxy implementation can safely ignore `http` and `https` port mappings.

To change the proxy implementation in use for an application, use the `proxy:set` command:

```shell
# no validation will be performed against
# the specified proxy implementation
dokku proxy:set node-js-app nginx
```

### Proxy port mapping

See the [port management documentation](/docs/networking/port-management.md).

Commit message:

nginx-vhosts: add a note in the proxy management docs about grpc
[ci skip]

docs/networking/proxy-management.md, after:

# Proxy Management

> New as of 0.5.0, Enhanced in 0.6.0

```
proxy:disable <app>                      # Disable proxy for app
proxy:enable <app>                       # Enable proxy for app
proxy:report [<app>] [<flag>]            # Displays a proxy report for one or more apps
proxy:set <app> <proxy-type>             # Set proxy type for app
```

In Dokku 0.5.0, port proxying was decoupled from the `nginx-vhosts` plugin into the proxy plugin. Dokku 0.6.0 introduced the ability to map host ports to specific container ports. In the future this will allow other proxy software - such as HAProxy or Caddy - to be used in place of nginx.

## Usage

### Container network interface binding

> Changed as of 0.11.0

From Dokku versions `0.5.0` until `0.11.0`, enabling or disabling an application's proxy would **also** control whether or not the application was bound to all interfaces - e.g. `0.0.0.0`. As of `0.11.0`, this is now controlled by the network plugin. Please see the [network documentation](/docs/networking/network.md#container-network-interface-binding) for more information.

### Displaying proxy reports for an app

> New as of 0.8.1

You can get a report about the app's proxy status using the `proxy:report` command:

```shell
dokku proxy:report
```

```
=====> node-js-app proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000 https:443:5000
=====> python-sample proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000
=====> ruby-sample proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000
```

You can run the command for a specific app also.

```shell
dokku proxy:report node-js-app
```

```
=====> node-js-app proxy information
       Proxy enabled:       true
       Proxy type:          nginx
       Proxy port map:      http:80:5000 https:443:5000
```

You can pass flags which will output only the value of the specific information you want. For example:

```shell
dokku proxy:report node-js-app --proxy-type
```

#### Proxy Port Scheme

The proxy port scheme is as follows:

- `SCHEME:HOST_PORT:CONTAINER_PORT`

The scheme metadata can be used by proxy implementations in order to properly handle proxying of requests. For example, the built-in `nginx-vhosts` proxy implementation supports the `http`, `https`, `grpc` and `grpcs` schemes. 
For the `grpc` and `grpcs` see [nginx blog post on grpc](https://www.nginx.com/blog/nginx-1-13-10-grpc/).

Developers of proxy implementations are encouraged to use whatever schemes make the most sense, and ignore configurations which they do not support. For instance, a `udp` proxy implementation can safely ignore `http` and `https` port mappings.

To change the proxy implementation in use for an application, use the `proxy:set` command:

```shell
# no validation will be performed against
# the specified proxy implementation
dokku proxy:set node-js-app nginx
```

### Proxy port mapping

See the [port management documentation](/docs/networking/port-management.md).
