docs/processes/process-management.md, before:

# Process Management

> New as of 0.3.14, Enhanced in 0.7.0

```
ps:inspect <app>                                                  # Displays a sanitized version of docker inspect for an app
ps:rebuild [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]                       # Rebuilds an app from source
ps:report [<app>] [<flag>]                                        # Displays a process report for one or more apps
ps:restart [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]  [<process-name>]     # Restart an app
ps:restore [<app>]                                                # Start previously running apps e.g. after reboot
ps:scale [--skip-deploy] <app> <proc>=<count> [<proc>=<count>...] # Get/Set how many instances of a given process to run
ps:set <app> <key> <value>                                        # Set or clear a ps property for an app
ps:start [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]                         # Start an app
ps:stop [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]                          # Stop an app
```

## Usage

### Inspecting app containers

> New as of 0.13.0

A common administrative task to perform is calling `docker inspect` on the containers that are running for an app. This can be an error-prone task to perform, and may also reveal sensitive environment variables if not done correctly. Dokku provides a wrapper around this command via the `ps:inspect` command:

```shell
dokku ps:inspect node-js-app
```

This command will gather all the running container IDs for your app and call `docker inspect`, sanitizing the output data so it can be copy-pasted elsewhere safely.

### Rebuilding apps

It may be useful to rebuild an app at will, such as for commands that do not rebuild an app or when skipping a rebuild after setting multiple config values. For these use cases, the `ps:rebuild` function can be used.

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild node-js-app
```

All apps may be rebuilt by using the `--all` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild --all
```

By default, rebuilding all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild --all --parallel -1
```

A missing linked container will result in failure to boot apps. Services should all be started for apps being rebuilt.

### Restarting apps

An app may be restarted using the `ps:restart` command.

```shell
dokku ps:restart node-js-app
```

A single process type - such as `web` or `worker` - may also be specified. This _does not_ support specifying a given instance of a process type, and only supports restarting all instances of that process type.

```shell
dokku ps:restart node-js-app web
```

All apps may be restarted by using the `--all` flag. This flag is incompatible with specifying a process type.

```shell
dokku ps:restart --all
```

By default, restarting all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:restart --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:restart --all --parallel -1
```

A missing linked container will result in failure to boot apps. Services should all be started for apps being rebuilt.

### Displaying existing scale properties

Issuing the `ps:scale` command with no arguments will output the current scaling properties for an app.

```shell
dokku ps:scale node-js-app
```

```
-----> Scaling for python
proctype: qty
--------: ---
web:  1
```

### Scaling apps

#### Via CLI

> This functionality is disabled if the formation is managed via the `formation` key of `app.json`.

Dokku can also manage scaling itself via the `ps:scale` command. This command can be used to scale multiple process types at the same time.

```shell
dokku ps:scale node-js-app web=1
```

Multiple process types can be scaled at once:

```shell
dokku ps:scale node-js-app web=1 worker=1
```

If desired, the corresponding deploy will be skipped by using the `--skip-deploy` flag:

```shell
dokku ps:scale --skip-deploy node-js-app web=1
```

#### Manually managing process scaling

> Using a `formation` key in an `app.json` file with _any_ `quantity` specified disables the ability to use `ps:scale` for scaling.

An `app.json` file can be committed to the root of the pushed app repository, and must be within the built image artifact in the image's working directory as shown below.

- Buildpacks: `/app/app.json`
- Dockerfile: `WORKDIR/app.json` or `/app.json` (if no working directory specified)
- Docker Image: `WORKDIR/app.json` or `/app.json` (if no working directory specified)

The `formation` key should be specified as follows in the `app.json` file:

```Procfile
{
  "formation": {
    "web": {
      "quantity": 1
    },
    "worker": {
      "quantity": 4
    }
  }
}
```

Removing the file will result in Dokku respecting the `ps:scale` command for setting scale values. The values set via the `app.json` file from a previous deploy will be respected.

#### The `web` process

For initial app deploys, Dokku will default to starting a single `web` process for each app. This process may be defined within the `Procfile` or as the `CMD` (for Dockerfile or Docker image deploys). Scaling of the `web` process - and all other processes - may be managed via `ps:scale` or the `formation` key in the `app.json` file either before or after the initial deploy.

There are also a few other exceptions for the `web` process.

- Custom checks defined by a `CHECKS` file only apply to the `web` process type.
- By default, the built-in nginx proxy implementation only proxies the `web` process (others may be handled via a custom `nginx.conf.sigil`).
  - See the [nginx request proxying documentation](/docs/networking/proxies/nginx.md#request-proxying) for more information on how nginx handles proxied requests.
- Only the `web` process may be bound to an external port.

#### Changing the `Procfile` location

When deploying a monorepo, it may be desirable to specify the specific path of the `Procfile` file to use for a given app. This can be done via the `ps:set` command. If a value is specified and that file does not exist within the repository, Dokku will continue the build process as if the repository has no `Procfile`.

```shell
dokku ps:set node-js-app procfile-path Procfile2
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option:

```shell
dokku ps:set node-js-app procfile-path
```

The `procfile-path` property can also be set globally. The global default is `Procfile`, and the global value is used when no app-specific value is set.

```shell
dokku ps:set --global procfile-path global-Procfile
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option.

```shell
dokku ps:set --global procfile-path
```

### Stopping apps

Deployed apps can be stopped using the `ps:stop` command. This turns off all running containers for an app, and will result in a **502 Bad Gateway** response for the default nginx proxy implementation.

```shell
dokku ps:stop node-js-app
```

All apps may be stopped by using the `--all` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:stop --all
```

By default, stopping all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:stop --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:stop --all --parallel -1
```

### Starting apps

All stopped containers can be started using the `ps:start` command. This is similar to running `ps:restart`, except no action will be taken if the app containers are running.

```shell
dokku ps:start node-js-app
```

All apps may be started by using the `--all` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:start --all
```

By default, starting all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:start --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:start --all --parallel -1
```

### Restart policies

> New as of 0.7.0, Command Changed in 0.22.0

By default, Dokku will automatically restart containers that exit with a non-zero status up to 10 times via the [on-failure Docker restart policy](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#restart-policies---restart).

#### Setting the restart policy

> A change in the restart policy must be followed by a `ps:rebuild` call.

You can configure this via the `ps:set` command:

```shell
# always restart an exited container
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy always

# never restart an exited container
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy no

# only restart it on Docker restart if it was not manually stopped
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy unless-stopped

# restart only on non-zero exit status
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy on-failure

# restart only on non-zero exit status up to 20 times
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy on-failure:20
```

Restart policies have no bearing on server reboot, and Dokku will always attempt to restart your apps at that point unless they were manually stopped.

Dokku also runs `dokku-event-listener` in the background via the system's init service. This monitors container state, performing the following actions:

- If a web process restarts and it's container IP address changes, the app's proxy configuration will be rebuilt.
- If a process within an app exceeds the restart count, the app will be rebuilt.

### Displaying reports for an app

> New as of 0.12.0

You can get a report about the deployed apps using the `ps:report` command:

```shell
dokku ps:report
```

```
=====> node-js-app ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps computed procfile path:     Procfile2
       Ps global procfile path:       Procfile
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Ps procfile path:              Procfile2
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
=====> python-sample ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps computed procfile path:     Procfile
       Ps global procfile path:       Procfile
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Ps procfile path:
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
=====> ruby-sample ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps computed procfile path:     Procfile
       Ps global procfile path:       Procfile
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Ps procfile path:
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
```

You can run the command for a specific app also.

```shell
dokku ps:report node-js-app
```

```
=====> node-js-app ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
```

You can pass flags which will output only the value of the specific information you want. For example:

```shell
dokku ps:report node-js-app --deployed
```

### Restoring apps after a server reboot

When a server reboots or Docker is restarted/upgraded, Docker may or may not start old app containers automatically, and may in some cases re-assign container IP addresses. To combat this issue, Dokku uses an init process that triggers `dokku ps:restore` after the Docker daemon is detected as starting. When triggered, the `dokku ps:restore` command will serially (one by one) run the following for each:

- Start all linked services.
- Clear generated proxy configuration files.
- Start the app if it has not been manually stopped.
  - If the app containers still exist, they will be started and the generated proxy configuration files will be rebuilt.
  - If any of the app containers are missing, the entire app will be rebuilt.

During this time, requests may route to the incorrect app if the assigned IPs correspond to those for other apps. While dokku makes all efforts to avoid this, there may be a few minutes where urls may route to the wrong app. To avoid this, either use a custom proxy plugin or wait a few minutes until the restoration process is complete.

Commit message:

docs: document that scaling via app.json will set all other processes to zero
Closes #5412

docs/processes/process-management.md, after:

# Process Management

> New as of 0.3.14, Enhanced in 0.7.0

```
ps:inspect <app>                                                  # Displays a sanitized version of docker inspect for an app
ps:rebuild [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]                       # Rebuilds an app from source
ps:report [<app>] [<flag>]                                        # Displays a process report for one or more apps
ps:restart [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]  [<process-name>]     # Restart an app
ps:restore [<app>]                                                # Start previously running apps e.g. after reboot
ps:scale [--skip-deploy] <app> <proc>=<count> [<proc>=<count>...] # Get/Set how many instances of a given process to run
ps:set <app> <key> <value>                                        # Set or clear a ps property for an app
ps:start [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]                         # Start an app
ps:stop [--parallel count] [--all|<app>]                          # Stop an app
```

## Usage

### Inspecting app containers

> New as of 0.13.0

A common administrative task to perform is calling `docker inspect` on the containers that are running for an app. This can be an error-prone task to perform, and may also reveal sensitive environment variables if not done correctly. Dokku provides a wrapper around this command via the `ps:inspect` command:

```shell
dokku ps:inspect node-js-app
```

This command will gather all the running container IDs for your app and call `docker inspect`, sanitizing the output data so it can be copy-pasted elsewhere safely.

### Rebuilding apps

It may be useful to rebuild an app at will, such as for commands that do not rebuild an app or when skipping a rebuild after setting multiple config values. For these use cases, the `ps:rebuild` function can be used.

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild node-js-app
```

All apps may be rebuilt by using the `--all` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild --all
```

By default, rebuilding all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:rebuild --all --parallel -1
```

A missing linked container will result in failure to boot apps. Services should all be started for apps being rebuilt.

### Restarting apps

An app may be restarted using the `ps:restart` command.

```shell
dokku ps:restart node-js-app
```

A single process type - such as `web` or `worker` - may also be specified. This _does not_ support specifying a given instance of a process type, and only supports restarting all instances of that process type.

```shell
dokku ps:restart node-js-app web
```

All apps may be restarted by using the `--all` flag. This flag is incompatible with specifying a process type.

```shell
dokku ps:restart --all
```

By default, restarting all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:restart --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:restart --all --parallel -1
```

A missing linked container will result in failure to boot apps. Services should all be started for apps being rebuilt.

### Displaying existing scale properties

Issuing the `ps:scale` command with no arguments will output the current scaling properties for an app.

```shell
dokku ps:scale node-js-app
```

```
-----> Scaling for python
proctype: qty
--------: ---
web:  1
```

### Scaling apps

#### Via CLI

> This functionality is disabled if the formation is managed via the `formation` key of `app.json`.

Dokku can also manage scaling itself via the `ps:scale` command. This command can be used to scale multiple process types at the same time.

```shell
dokku ps:scale node-js-app web=1
```

Multiple process types can be scaled at once:

```shell
dokku ps:scale node-js-app web=1 worker=1
```

If desired, the corresponding deploy will be skipped by using the `--skip-deploy` flag:

```shell
dokku ps:scale --skip-deploy node-js-app web=1
```

#### Manually managing process scaling

> Using a `formation` key in an `app.json` file with _any_ `quantity` specified disables the ability to use `ps:scale` for scaling. All processes not specified in the `app.json` will have their process count set to zero.

An `app.json` file can be committed to the root of the pushed app repository, and must be within the built image artifact in the image's working directory as shown below.

- Buildpacks: `/app/app.json`
- Dockerfile: `WORKDIR/app.json` or `/app.json` (if no working directory specified)
- Docker Image: `WORKDIR/app.json` or `/app.json` (if no working directory specified)

The `formation` key should be specified as follows in the `app.json` file:

```Procfile
{
  "formation": {
    "web": {
      "quantity": 1
    },
    "worker": {
      "quantity": 4
    }
  }
}
```

Removing the file will result in Dokku respecting the `ps:scale` command for setting scale values. The values set via the `app.json` file from a previous deploy will be respected.

#### The `web` process

For initial app deploys, Dokku will default to starting a single `web` process for each app. This process may be defined within the `Procfile` or as the `CMD` (for Dockerfile or Docker image deploys). Scaling of the `web` process - and all other processes - may be managed via `ps:scale` or the `formation` key in the `app.json` file either before or after the initial deploy.

There are also a few other exceptions for the `web` process.

- Custom checks defined by a `CHECKS` file only apply to the `web` process type.
- By default, the built-in nginx proxy implementation only proxies the `web` process (others may be handled via a custom `nginx.conf.sigil`).
  - See the [nginx request proxying documentation](/docs/networking/proxies/nginx.md#request-proxying) for more information on how nginx handles proxied requests.
- Only the `web` process may be bound to an external port.

#### Changing the `Procfile` location

When deploying a monorepo, it may be desirable to specify the specific path of the `Procfile` file to use for a given app. This can be done via the `ps:set` command. If a value is specified and that file does not exist within the repository, Dokku will continue the build process as if the repository has no `Procfile`.

```shell
dokku ps:set node-js-app procfile-path Procfile2
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option:

```shell
dokku ps:set node-js-app procfile-path
```

The `procfile-path` property can also be set globally. The global default is `Procfile`, and the global value is used when no app-specific value is set.

```shell
dokku ps:set --global procfile-path global-Procfile
```

The default value may be set by passing an empty value for the option.

```shell
dokku ps:set --global procfile-path
```

### Stopping apps

Deployed apps can be stopped using the `ps:stop` command. This turns off all running containers for an app, and will result in a **502 Bad Gateway** response for the default nginx proxy implementation.

```shell
dokku ps:stop node-js-app
```

All apps may be stopped by using the `--all` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:stop --all
```

By default, stopping all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:stop --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:stop --all --parallel -1
```

### Starting apps

All stopped containers can be started using the `ps:start` command. This is similar to running `ps:restart`, except no action will be taken if the app containers are running.

```shell
dokku ps:start node-js-app
```

All apps may be started by using the `--all` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:start --all
```

By default, starting all apps happens serially. The parallelism may be controlled by the `--parallel` flag.

```shell
dokku ps:start --all --parallel 2
```

Finally, the number of parallel workers may be automatically set to the number of CPUs available by setting the `--parallel` flag to `-1`

```shell
dokku ps:start --all --parallel -1
```

### Restart policies

> New as of 0.7.0, Command Changed in 0.22.0

By default, Dokku will automatically restart containers that exit with a non-zero status up to 10 times via the [on-failure Docker restart policy](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#restart-policies---restart).

#### Setting the restart policy

> A change in the restart policy must be followed by a `ps:rebuild` call.

You can configure this via the `ps:set` command:

```shell
# always restart an exited container
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy always

# never restart an exited container
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy no

# only restart it on Docker restart if it was not manually stopped
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy unless-stopped

# restart only on non-zero exit status
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy on-failure

# restart only on non-zero exit status up to 20 times
dokku ps:set node-js-app restart-policy on-failure:20
```

Restart policies have no bearing on server reboot, and Dokku will always attempt to restart your apps at that point unless they were manually stopped.

Dokku also runs `dokku-event-listener` in the background via the system's init service. This monitors container state, performing the following actions:

- If a web process restarts and it's container IP address changes, the app's proxy configuration will be rebuilt.
- If a process within an app exceeds the restart count, the app will be rebuilt.

### Displaying reports for an app

> New as of 0.12.0

You can get a report about the deployed apps using the `ps:report` command:

```shell
dokku ps:report
```

```
=====> node-js-app ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps computed procfile path:     Procfile2
       Ps global procfile path:       Procfile
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Ps procfile path:              Procfile2
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
=====> python-sample ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps computed procfile path:     Procfile
       Ps global procfile path:       Procfile
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Ps procfile path:
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
=====> ruby-sample ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps computed procfile path:     Procfile
       Ps global procfile path:       Procfile
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Ps procfile path:
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
```

You can run the command for a specific app also.

```shell
dokku ps:report node-js-app
```

```
=====> node-js-app ps information
       Deployed:                      false
       Processes:                     0
       Ps can scale:                  true
       Ps restart policy:             on-failure:10
       Restore:                       true
       Running:                       false
```

You can pass flags which will output only the value of the specific information you want. For example:

```shell
dokku ps:report node-js-app --deployed
```

### Restoring apps after a server reboot

When a server reboots or Docker is restarted/upgraded, Docker may or may not start old app containers automatically, and may in some cases re-assign container IP addresses. To combat this issue, Dokku uses an init process that triggers `dokku ps:restore` after the Docker daemon is detected as starting. When triggered, the `dokku ps:restore` command will serially (one by one) run the following for each:

- Start all linked services.
- Clear generated proxy configuration files.
- Start the app if it has not been manually stopped.
  - If the app containers still exist, they will be started and the generated proxy configuration files will be rebuilt.
  - If any of the app containers are missing, the entire app will be rebuilt.

During this time, requests may route to the incorrect app if the assigned IPs correspond to those for other apps. While dokku makes all efforts to avoid this, there may be a few minutes where urls may route to the wrong app. To avoid this, either use a custom proxy plugin or wait a few minutes until the restoration process is complete.
